in this video we're going to talk about
estimation questions in product
management interviews my name is Kevin
way I'm a PM and I'm here to help you
land your dream job in Tech be sure to
like subscribe and hit the notification
Bell for new tech interview prep videos
every single
[Music]
week estimation questions are tough
because they're so open-ended you might
get a question like tell me how many
cars are in the city of Seattle since
there are so many paths you can take to
answer a question like this it can feel
super difficult to get started it can
also be hard to explain your thought
process or do quick whiteboard math in
the time that you have to counteract
these problems I'm going to share three
tips you can take to Ace any estimation
question remember the goal of estimation
questions is not for you to get the
right answer rather they test your
ability to think outside the box your
interviewer is more concerned with how
you think about problem rather than the
answer you came up with tip number one
estimate via proxy an excellent way to
estimate a number is to figure out
another related and known number maybe
you'll start your estimation of the
number of cars in Seattle by
hypothesizing that the number of cars is
directly related to the number of
families well the number of families in
Seattle is definitely easier to come up
with so once you have a related quantity
all you have to do is scale that number
up or down for example if you assume
there are 300,000 households in Seattle
it doesn't mean there are 300,000 cars
in Seattle each household may have on
average two cars so 300,000 households
with two cars each helps you guess that
there are 600,000 cars in Seattle tip
number two upper and lower bounds
another way to estimate a figure is by
starting with the extremes what are the
realistic upper and lower bounds on what
you're trying to estimate come up with
these numbers and then Whittle them down
to a concrete number for example the
extreme lower limit of cars in Seattle
is if no one owned any cars so the lower
limit is zero and realistically the
extreme upper limit is if everyone owned
a car this would probably be around the
population size of Seattle so let's say
a million people if you take the average
of these two numbers you get 500,000
cars in Seattle the actual number is
closer to around 430,000 but in your
interview your interviewer won't care as
much about the correctness as much as
they care about your process so Whittle
down your ranges with relevant
assumptions to get closer to a concrete
answer tip number three personal
references when all else fails relate
the unknown quantity to some known
quantity in your life with our number of
cars in Seattle question again you might
know that 50% of your friends have cars
you can also make a guess that half of
all seattleites are around the same age
as you and your friends given the
prevalence of tech companies in the city
then the other 50% of the population
might have more or fewer cars than your
friends it'll be up to you to make this
type of estimation if you assume that
the population of Seattle is around a
million people this means that there are
at least 250,000 cars in the city
this number comes from estimating that
at least half of all Seattle residents
are in the same age group as all of your
friends and half of those people have
cars from here you'll estimate the car
ownership rate of the remaining half of
the population in other words the group
not similar to your friends you can make
assumptions about age proximity to city
center or any other metric that can help
you reasonably estimate how the
remainder of the population uses cars as
a word of warning your interviewer will
be on the lookout for you to call out
any biases you may have if you use
personal references for example maybe
you live in a city like Los Angeles
where it's very common for people to
have cars or you might live in a city
like New York City where it's common for
people to take public transit instead of
owning a car mention these thoughts to
your interviewer to show that you're
thinking holistically about the problem
using personal references won't be as
accurate as the first two methods but
it's a good starting point
especially if you can recognize your
biases and adjust accordingly and there
you have it these are three methods you
can use to tackle estimation questions
in your interview always remember to gut
check your answer to see if it's too
high or too low and revise your number
if you feel like you have incorrectly
assumed something I hope this helped
paint a picture of how you can navigate
ambiguous estimation questions for more
PM interview prep content exponent has
the best resources to help you AC your
interview including in-depth courses
private coaching and a community of
experts ready to help you prep for even
the toughest questions hit that
subscribe button for new videos every
single week and go to Tri exponent.com
to become a member today thanks for
watching
[Music]